The first
category of operators we're going to look at is arithmetic operators.
We use this for performing calculations, just like the
calculations in mathematics, so here we have two variables
x and y, let's take a look at all the arithmetic
operators in JavaScript. So I'm going to do a console
.log, here's the first example, x plus y,
that is the edition operator. So these arithmetic operators
usually take two up rands (?) in this case x
and y. And then produce a new value. What we have here
is x + y is what we refer to as an expression
in JavaScript. So an expression is something that produces
a value. So here's the edition operator. We also have
subtraction. We have
multiplication. Division.
And remainder of devision. So just like
basic arithmetic operators in mathematics, we have
a new operator in JavaScript that is exponentiation
it's indicated by two stars, and that is x,
to the power of y. So these are pretty straight forrward
we have two additional arithmetic operators that are a little bit more tricky.
So I'm going to focus on those. For now I'm going to comment out
these few lines, you can do that by selecting a piece of code, and
pressing command and / on Mac, or control and /
on Windows. So, these two other
operators, are increment and decrement operators
let's see how they work. So increment is indicated by
two plus signs, and depending on where we put the plus signs
this operator will behave differently. So I'm going to do a
console.log of x, x is initialized to 10,
so if I save the changes, we see 10 on the console.
Now, if I put the increment operator before
x the value of x will be incremented by
1 first and then we will see that on the console. Let's take a look
so save the changes, see we get 11.
In contrast, if you put this operator after x,
we will see x on the console first, and then the value of
x will be incremented by 1. Have a look, save the changes
we see 10, but at this point x is incremented by
1, so if we do another console.log,
of x, now we should see 11. Have a look.
Here it is. The increment operator is pretty similar.
So, instead of two plus signs, we have two minus signs,
and here I'm gonna apply this before x,
so we're going to decrement the value of x by 1,
and then display it on the console. So for this demo, I'm going to comment out
these two lines, have a look, we see 9
on the console, because we apply this operator first and then
displayed x on the console. So these are all
the arithmetic operators we have in JavaScript. To recap,
we have addition, subtraction,
multiplication, division,
remainder of division, exponentiation which is x to the power
of y, as well as increment and decrement
operators.